* SLIME News                  -*- outline -*-

* 1.0 alpha-1 (June 2004)

This preview release of SLIME is a precursor for an upcoming 1.0
release. We're planning to use our "alpha period" to introduce SLIME
to more users, flush out bugs, and hear some final feedback that we
can consider for the 1.0 release.

We're tentatively planning for our alpha period to last until around
the end of July, then to be followed by a beta period until late
August when we make the finished 1.0 release. We're only interested in
adding or changing features during the alpha period, so if you want to
change something please try to get your patch applied before the end
of July.

** Supported Lisp implementations

Below is a list of the Lisp implementations that we support and their
associated caveats.

Note that some Lisp systems have received more development attention
because they're popular with the currently active SLIME developers,
while others have only smaller user communities so far. The support
for a particular Lisp is primarily written and improved by its own
users, and it's good for your karma to improve the backend for your
favourite Lisp implementation.

*** CMU Common Lisp

We support CMUCL version 18e and higher. The overall support is very
mature.

The cross-reference commands are based on the CMUCL XREF
package. You'll need to setup XREF information recording to use those
commands, and in current CMUCLs this is slightly awkward.

*** Steel Bank Common Lisp

We support SBCL version 0.8.12 and higher. The support is very mature.

An "SBCL exclusive" feature is reference-conditions. Some SBCL
conditions include a slot of documentation references (e.g. to the
Hyperspec and SBCL manual) and the SLIME debugger is able to format
these as hyperlinks.

For the (v)iew-source command in the debugger to find the exact source
expression corresponding to a stack frame, the code must have been
compiled with at least (optimize (debug 2)). Otherwise the results
will only have top-level-form precision.

The XREF commands are not available.

*** OpenMCL

We support OpenMCL 0.14.2p1, however our debugger can't invoke
restarts in this version due to a bug in
INVOKE-RESTART-INTERACTIVELY. This bug has been fixed in OpenMCL's CVS
repository and we recommend upgrading to either the CVS copy or a
later release if available.

The OpenMCL support is quite mature.

The XREF commands are not available.

*** LispWorks

We support LispWorks version 4.3 and higher. The support is quite
mature.

*** Allegro CL

*** CLISP

*** Armed Bear Common Lisp

